---
title: "Progress Report #14"
category: updates
layout: main
---

## {{ page.title }} ({{ page.date | date: "%Y.%m.%d" }})

<hr>


_My efforts on [Mendicant University](http://university.rubymendicant.com) as well as my work on various open source projects and educational initiatives are made possible by the many folks in the Ruby community who [support my work](/support.html) so that I can keep doing what I'm doing._

After several months of radio silence, it's probably about time for me to start doing these progress reports again. I didn't stop because I was bored of writing status updates, but instead because I have been badly overcommitted and a bit burned out. For the last several months, I have been working mostly on [Practicing Ruby](http://practicingruby.com) with all of my remaining free time being dedicated to [Mendicant University](http://mendicantuniversity.org), leaving little time for anything else.

The work on Practicing Ruby has been well worth it. As of right now, I have 285 paying subscribers. The money that the service brings in, along with the [Mendicant Supporters](http://majesticseacreature.com/network.html) program and my wife's income puts us in a reasonable stable position financially. The current cashflow won't help us build up our savings or pay for things like trips to conferences, but it will pretty much make sure that our bills are paid and that we can eat well. While the time commitment I'm currently putting into Practicing Ruby is more than what I would like, it is more stable than consulting work and more directly beneficial to my work on Mendicant University.

In the last four months, I've written somewhere between 150-200 pages of content for Practicing Ruby Volume 2, all of which I plan to release under a Creative Commons license within the next few months, probably some time in March. Work on Volume 3 will begin on January 3rd, and I am looking forward to raising the bar even further in 2012. My work on Practicing Ruby has reminded me just how much I enjoy research and writing, even if it can be a real time sink.  

It is difficult to summarize what has happened at Mendicant University over the last few months, and so I won't try to do that here. All in all, we had a great fall trimester, and we had a chance to try out a lot of new ideas. However, I've been doing a poor job of reporting on what we've been up to, and that has made it so that a lot of good work by our students and staff went unnoticed by the broader community in recent times. This is a problem that needs fixing, and we aim to do exactly that.

For the last several days, Jordan and I have been working on a community website for Mendicant University, which will publicly launch within the next couple months. It gives our community members a place to maintain a public profile, and share updates in a way that's similar to [RubyFlow](http://rubyflow.com). We'll also be using this website for announcing the many activities that we run for the public and our students. Additionally, we plan to revamp our public website to be more useful and easier to navigate. Our hope is that these changes will make it easier to see what's going on at Mendicant University, and also make it easier for both members of our extended community and our students to get involved.

There is probably more I could say in this progress report, but since it's the first one in a LONG time, I'm going to start off with baby steps before working my way back up to a sprint. Until next week, happy hacking!
